---
title: "Salesforce Datorama"
date: 2022-06-13
---
Datorama is a global technology company providing the leading Marketing Intelligence solution for data-driven enterprises, agencies, publishers, and platforms. Datorama’s artificial intelligence- (AI) powered, Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) platform gives marketers the ability to centralize all of their data into one single source of truth. This automates reporting across channels and campaigns, and provides marketers with a seamless, always-on optimization capability across every performance, impact, and customer loyalty key performance indicator (KPI). Datorama’s best-in-breed combination of end-to-end data management, data visualization, automated insights, and activations empower marketers to become an engine of growth for their respective business. Datorama powers Marketing Intelligence for thousands of cutting-edge marketing organizations, including: IBM, L’Oreal, Ticketmaster, PepsiCo, Pernod Ricard, Foursquare, Publicis Media and others. 

To learn more about Datorama, please visit: https://datorama.com/.

Datorama’s marketing intelligence platform transforms the way marketers optimize their marketing performance, business impact, and customer loyalty. With Datorama, customers can: 
  • Automatically connect all their disparate marketing tools and reports in one centralized place 
  • Access and act on the right cross-channel KPIs, dashboards, reports and AI-powered insights 
  • Optimize and report on every investment, performance, and outcome across the customer journey Datorama powers marketing intelligence for thousands of brands, agencies and publishers globally including IBM, Nike, Ticketmaster, Viacom and Neo@Ogilvy, helping them make smarter marketing decisions everyday. 
  Datorama has a global presence with 16 offices worldwide and was recently named a Gartner Cool Vendor and ranks #35 on the Deloitte Fast 500 list. Learn more about how we can help you: datorama.com 
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
About 
 ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------ Connect 100% of your marketing data. ------------------------------------ Automatically connect, unify, and maintain your marketing data to create a foundation for true data transparency. Connect + Unify The right data. The right information. Right away. Input. Model. Adapt. Scale Datorama’s Integration Engine is built specifically for marketers and media professionals and serves as the cornerstone of your cross-channel marketing intelligence. Our data integration, data modeling, and semantic layer combine the deepest in-the-box marketing expertise, AI machine learning, and easy extensibility to strike the perfect balance between automation and customization. Connecting and unifying all of your platforms, tools, and reports in one place becomes simple with smart assistive technology. • Extensive APIs for your marketing data. Access the most extensive library of marketing APIs– plus popular databases, cloud storage platforms, and big data environments. Simply select your platform connector to automate your data integration directly, updating at the interval of your choosing. Our APIs cover the full spectrum of the mar tech and ad tech ecosystem so you can connect any data source – social, search, display, video, programmatic, web analytics, CRM, email, and more – all in one place, quickly and easily. • Unify your data with marketing expertise. Smarter decisions are built on unified data – KPIs, metrics, and classifications that show you what’s working and what’s not across channels, campaigns, and more. Most solutions require complex and costly technical skill sets – and miss what’s most important – marketing expertise. Datorama Mix is the smarter approach. Our dynamic data model puts the ultimate marketing data expert at your service. Leveraging deep domain and media knowledge, it knows how your data should fit together and automates organization. And it’s fully adaptable– allowing you to connect new data, tools, and teams in real-time. • Limitless AI-powered data integration. Marketing data is always changing. With more than 5000+ marketing tools in the market, you need the flexibility to connect any data source instantly. TotalConnect answers the challenge, going beyond APIs into limitless integration. Using machine learning intelligence to analyze data files, TotalConnect automates data cleansing and data model mapping – crucial steps that require advanced manual skillsets. Like a good assistant, it finishes the job by scheduling ongoing data updates via email, SFTP, and more. With TotalConnect, you’re ready to integrate any data at a moment’s notice. • Custom KPIs and classifications. The Datorama Semantic Layer extends Datorama Mix, allowing marketers to customize their data model and business logic in real-time across KPIs, calculations, and classifications. Semantic layers in traditional platforms require complex technical skillsets, but Datorama puts the power the hands of the marketers, agencies, and publishers who know their business best. Using language marketers understand, creating KPIs or managing classification rules becomes simple. It’s the third element to creating the agile, single source of truth for all of your dashboards, reports, and insights for holistic cross channel marketing analytics. • LiteConnect: Fast Integration, Instant Visualization Designed with simplicity in mind, LiteConnect streamlines the process of bringing in any data source into the platform. Data uploaded through LiteConnect lives independently within the platform– granting marketers total flexibility without having to do any data model mapping. This means easy, instant analysis on any data, including non-marketing sources such as sales, product, and weather data. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ "Unlike more traditional data integration tools designed for IT users, Datorama is built for hard-working marketers who need to pull information from a bewildering portfolio of data management, marketing analytics, campaign management, social media, sales and other platforms." - Martin Kihn VP Research, Gartner ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ • Whitepaper: 7 Steps to Marketing Data Integration Just getting started on your data integration journey? We wrote a 7-step roadmap to help you understand and improve your company’s marketing analytics efficiency. -------------------------------------------- Create a culture of continuous optimization. -------------------------------------------- Empower your teams to move at the speed of your customer with accessible, accurate, and actionable insights. Analyze Cross-channel knowledge, always on optimization, automatic reporting Visualize. Report. Optimize with AI-powered insights. Datorama’s Insights Engine illuminates your marketing intelligence, providing always on optimization and reporting. Our Insight Engine brings striking visualizations and AI machine learning to your marketing analytics, giving you a holistic view of all of your data and empowering you to make smarter decisions. With the Insights Engine, monitor and report on all of your marketing data in a unified platform, providing each stakeholder with the right KPIs, trends and drill downs. Then optimize in the moment with AI surfaced insights that show you where to optimize across all your data– all accessible wherever you are via web or mobile. Beauty & Brains Datorama dashboards and reports centralize KPI and calculation management while powering dashboards built in minutes via drag and drop. Designed with marketers in mind, the Datorama platform enables you to build the right dashboards and reports for each stakeholder and contributor in your organization — so your teams can collaborate more effectively and make better decisions to move your marketing and business forward. That means supporting every campaign, channel, cross-channel and leadership visualization you need. Better yet, you can easily create personalized templates to scale your best views across teams and regions and customize your dashboard design without limits. The right KPIs and insights, automated. Datorama SmartLenses are one-click dashboards that surface the right KPIs and insights in an instant. Available for the top marketing data sources and based on our extensive domain expertise, SmartLenses automate discovery and analysis and achieve data modeling and visualization in a single step, bringing all marketers immediate value. SmartLenses simplify marketing analytics, delivering comprehensive insight into key data sources including Facebook, Marketo, Google Adwords, Moat and dozens more, so you can access the right in-depth KPIs, performance trending, campaign analysis, and segment drill-downs plus much more. Know what you don’t know with AI-powered insights across all your data. Einstein Marketing Insights brings insights straight to your fingertips. Built for marketers, Einstein Marketing Insights understands how your data impacts your KPIs, using automated regression modelling and statistical analysis across all of your data. Einstein Marketing Insights makes sure your most crucial insights rise to the top while showing you the optimization paths forward. It helps complete the picture of total marketing performance management transforming your disparate data into better KPI performances faster than you ever thought possible. Predict & Prescribe Datorama Advanced Analytics provide data science depth with embedded predictive and statistical modeling support for your custom calculations and models. In one-click, predict performance and allow Datorama to select the best forecasting model for you or select your own pre-set model. Additionally, leverage advanced function libraries and R to perform custom statistical modeling including regression analysis and predictive analytics. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ "SmartLenses reaffirm Datorama’s market leadership in delivering solutions for our teams to get to the top insights across all of our channels, campaigns and audiences. This puts us in the driver seat to apply our knowledge and best practices to optimize performance and impact in the moment — driving better relationships and outcomes at scale across our clients." -Mollie Parker Director of Analytics and Tech Ops, DWA ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ---------------------------------------------------------- Never stop expanding thanks to an ecosystem of innovation. ---------------------------------------------------------- Discover solutions built by Salesforce and partners to power transformation and align your marketing organization.
Salesforce Datorama is a tool where you can integrate all your data from marketing and advertising platforms, web analytics, CRM, e-commerce, and more. You can then use this unified view of your data to optimize campaign performance and discover and act on insights in real time.

What is Datorama?
Datorama is a cloud-based Business Intelligence Tool from Salesforce. It’s considered a marketing intelligence platform, and it gives marketers a friendly way to access media data specifically.

What are the capabilities of Datorama?
Datorama allows you to combine your disparate marketing sources into one data model and visualize it in branded dashboards.

These capabilities are essential for any digital marketing program with data coming in from different sources and with different metrics, dimensions, and KPIs. The Datorama Platform has a customized data model featuring pre-defined data relationships, so it combines terms across advertising platforms and standardizes the data to all work together. The benefit of the marketing data model is that analysts can avoid creating repeat calculations. Instead, we map each marketing source to the data model, and then analysts can use the same fields no matter what they’re reporting on.

Once everything is in one place, Datorama lets you create dashboards quickly and easily with InstaBrand. Datorama’s dashboard branding features allow you to match a whole dashboard to your brand guidelines rapidly. Simply upload your logo or company colors, and all of your charts, widgets, and dashboards will change color to match.

What are the benefits of using Datorama?
Datorama is focused entirely on Marketing. With over 300 marketing connections in place, Datorama’s integration engine can connect quickly to your marketing sources, whether you’re connecting directly to marketing platforms, getting data from your agency, or pulling from internal databases.

Datorama’s InstaBrand functionality saves you time by allowing you to update every chart and metric on a dashboard at once to match your company’s colors and branding, while other platforms would require you to change each individual trendline or bar chart.

Datorama can help you stay one step ahead of your competitors with Salesforce-powered Einstein Insight Bots that provide insights into campaign improvement or KPI optimization. Tell Datorama you want to maximize your ROAS or minimize your CPA, and you’ll get real-time feedback on improvements you can make.

Datorama creates cross-functional ease.  The Media Cost Center lets you implement budget changes without ever leaving the platform.

Datorama provides a testing environment. Worried about breaking your reports when making updates? Datorama can provide a development workspace to test out your updates before pushing them to live reports.

With all of these tools at your disposal, Datorama empowers your marketing team to get things done.

What are my options for connecting data in Datorama?
Datorama has multiple options for getting data into its platform.  

Over 300 prebuilt API connectors are available for ad tech vendors, cloud data warehouses, and tracking platforms.
No API?  The TotalConnect connector is versatile and allows:
Direct file upload
SFTP
Pull a file from an email, or email a file for direct upload
Connect to a custom query service such as Big Query.
An array of developer-specific tools:
Create custom API connections – build a custom connector for your data source
Create custom Apps – build new packaged solutions on top of Datorama
Utilize the Platform API tool – manage your implementation with automatic actions, bulk updates, and custom workflows.
Utilize the Query API tool – export data from Datorama to your own database, 3rd party data visualization platforms, or your analytics tools.
Differentiating features of Datorama
Marketing Data Mapping Visualizer in Datorama

1. The Data Model
Within Datorama is the Data Model, where all the information is stored. It is pre-configured with marketing data fields and relationships.  As you absorb your data into this Data Model, you will need to fit the information into the right spot.  Once the data is implemented correctly, this Data Model is a powerful tool for your reporting needs. Datorama allows you to blend multiple sources in a variety of ways:

You can add formulas in the Data Mapping as the data is being imported.
You can bring multiple sources together to create custom metrics and dimensions and harmonize them in Calculated Metrics and Calculated Dimensions.  
There are many other methods available, such as Vlookup Functions, Filtered Metrics, and Data Fusion.
2. The Dashboard functionality.
Datorama is well-equipped with a visualization section allowing you to create powerful, one-click dashboards, custom visualizations, and shareable reports. Datorama also enables you to set up AI-driven insights to optimize channel and campaign performance in real-time.

Datorama Dashboard Example

Use cases for Datorama​
1. I have a lot of data, but different ad tech companies track things differently.
Does your ad Fetch vendor keep “Device” in the Ad Group Name, or is it a separate field? Are you trying to keep track of business logic across several different marketing sources? This is where Datorama’s object model shines.

How Datorama from Salesforce Unifies Marketing Data

2. We want one unified platform to manage our data.
You have two dashboards in Salesforce, three in Google Data studio, some data from Supermetrics that you drop into an Excel file weekly. That’s a lot of reporting monkey business! With Datorama’s integration engine, you can pull data directly from all of these sources. With connectors to all major ad tech vendors, you can consolidate reporting in one place.

Datorama consolidates data from all major ad tech vendors in one place.

3. I need to be able to do federated reporting.
Do you have to provide reports for multiple departments, levels, or product managers? Because your marketing sources have all been combined in one place, you can segment dashboards for each of your data consumers. Create scheduled reports that can be emailed or use the cloud-based dashboards to put data at the fingerprints of every stakeholder.

4. Our company requires multiple data visualization platforms.
Is your company already using Tableau but needing different capabilities for aligning marketing data? Because Datorama is part of the Salesforce marketing cloud family, datasets can be sent directly to the Tableau server and Tableau CRM. Let Datorama connect, integrate, and harmonize your data and send it back to where people are already used to seeing it.

5. We manage data for multiple brands.
If you manage data for multiple service lines, consumer brands, or industries, Datorama lets you create multiple workspaces for each brand, then develop roll-up reports for the parent company. Departments can see their data without seeing data from other departments, but the parent company can see what’s happening across all marketing departments.

6. We use standard data sources.
Standard data sources (i.e., email marketing, social media marketing, and display marketing ) connect cleanly and nicely into Datorama so that it’s easier to see performance across platforms. For example, if you have a campaign that runs across four platforms, Datorama would allow you to identify those platforms where the campaign is most successful without needing to do that aggregation manually.


